---
title: "OS Platform End of Life (EOL) Announcement for Ubuntu 20.04 LTS"
date: "2025-05-22T00:00:00+00:00"
tags: ['Ubuntu', 'Opensource']
categories: ['PMM', 'MySQL', 'MongoDB', 'PostgreSQL']
authors:
  - julia_vural
images:
  - blog/2025/05/eol-ubuntu.jpg
---

[Ubuntu 20.04 LTS](https://ubuntu.com/blog/ubuntu-20-04-lts-end-of-life-standard-support-is-coming-to-an-end-heres-how-to-prepare) (Focal Fossa) is scheduled to reach its official end of life on **May 31, 2025**. In alignment with the upstream vendor's lifecycle, we are also ending platform support for Ubuntu 20.04 for all our MySQL related product offerings. This date and others are published in advance on our [Percona Release Lifecycle Overview](https://www.percona.com/services/policies/percona-software-support-lifecycle) page.

As part of our support policy, **Percona will continue to provide advisory support for databases running on EOL platforms**, but effective **April 1, 2025**, we have discontinued:

-   Delivery of new packages or binary builds

-   Distribution of hotfixes or bug fixes for Percona software on Ubuntu 20.04

-   OS-level support for issues not related to the database itself

However, all existing packages will remain available for download.

We are committed to ensuring a smooth and seamless experience for our users. Migrating to a supported operating system will ensure that you continue to receive security updates, bug fixes, and new features for our products.

We encourage you to take action promptly and plan your migration from Ubuntu Focal to a supported operating system. Each operating system vendor has different supported migration or upgrade paths to their next major release. Please [contact us](https://www.percona.com/services) if you need assistance migrating your database to a different supported OS platform -- we will be happy to assist you!

**Note:** If requested by a customer, we may provide updated Percona packages for up to six months beyond the Percona EOL date, as a courtesy grace period.