---
title: 'Engineering Meeting June 2021'
excerpt: |
    * Location: Discord
    * Day: 2021, June 29
images:
  - /events/eng-meeting/mic.jpg
---

* Location: [Discord](http://per.co.na/discord)
* Day: 2021, June 29 ([Google Calendar event](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/r/eventedit/copy/NXVpMGxhYW9vZzB1NjZpYmxxbjM1dGRoYmlfMjAyMTA1MjVUMTQwMDAwWiBjX3NsaG5uaTIxdm9wNnI2MWt0OGFpMjZsNjRnQGc/ZGVuaXMua29uZHJhdGVua29AZ21haWwuY29t?scp=ALL&sf=true))

## Agenda

### Introduction

* Meet your community, short intros

### Percona Exporters and PMM

* [Exporters Roadmap](https://percona.community/blog/2021/06/11/exporters-roadmap/).
* [Project Board Review](https://github.com/orgs/percona/projects/2).
* Open PRs: review and questions.
* All exporter repositories now use GitHub Actions.
* Linter issues.
* Issues with forks.
* Usage and contribution in [grafana-dashboards](https://github.com/percona/grafana-dashboards/tree/PMM-2.0/dashboards).
    * Additional labels  of targets in  Prometheus.
    * [How to contribute Dashboards to PMM](https://www.percona.com/community-blog/2020/05/04/how-to-contribute-dashboards-to-pmm/).
* Release schedules and artefacts.
* Help from the community: suitable first tasks.

### Feedback and Q&A

* How can we improve?
* Q&A

### Meeting notes

* [Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DYKJ8IvOD2UWn-Vrn_wmORX1vDwpM4r_9eburP72TsY/edit?usp=sharing)
